README.md, before:

# Ki-PIDA (KiCad Power Integrity & Delivery Analyzer)

Ki-PIDA is a native KiCad plugin designed for Direct Current (DC) Power Integrity (PI) analysis. It allows PCB designers to simulate voltage drops (IR drop), current densities, and thermal rise directly within the KiCad Pcbnew environment, eliminating the need for expensive proprietary tools or complex external workflows.

## 🚀 Why Ki-PIDA?

Modern electronics operate with tight voltage margins. An IR drop of just 30mV can lead to system instability in sub-1.0V Socs. High current densities also pose thermal risks and reliability hazards like electromigration. 

Ki-PIDA democratizes high-end PI analysis by:
- **Ensuring Stability:** Detect voltage violations at the layout stage.
- **Reducing Iterations:** Identify "neck-down" regions and hotspots before prototyping.
- **Seamless Workflow:** Interactive layout-driven analysis without leaving KiCad.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Native Integration:** Built for KiCad 9.0+ using the Python Scripting API.
- **Power Tree Management:** Auto-discover power rails and manage complex hierarchies including VRM efficiency modeling.
- **Hybrid 2.5D Solver:** Fast and accurate simulation using an optimized resistive mesh approach.
- **Multi-Physics Support:** Coupled electro-thermal simulation to account for temperature-dependent copper resistivity.
- **Visual Feedback:** Interactive heatmaps for voltage and current density rendered as overlays on the PCB canvas.

## 📖 How to Use

1.  **Layout & Netlist:** Complete your power planes and traces in Pcbnew.
2.  **Launch Plugin:** Open Ki-PIDA from the KiCad toolbar.
3.  **Define Sources & Loads:** 
    - Use **Auto-Discovery** to detect power nets.
    - Assign **Voltage Sources** (VRMs) and **Current Loads** to specific pads or nets.
    - Pair supply nets with their corresponding **Return Path** (GND).
4.  **Simulate:** Click "Simulate" to generate the mesh and solve the DC network.
5.  **Visualize:** Toggle between **Voltage Drop** and **Thermal** heatmaps to inspect results and generate DRC markers for violations.

## 🛠️ Technical Overview (For Developers)

Ki-PIDA is built on a modular architecture designed for performance and maintainability.

### Architecture
- **Extractor (`extractor.py`):** Interfaces with the KiCad API to pull filled zone geometry, track layouts, and physical stackup data.
- **Mesher (`mesh.py`):** Discretizes continuous copper geometry into a 2D/3D resistive grid (Rasterization).
- **Solver (`solver.py`):** Uses an Admittance Matrix (Stamps method) and optimized SciPy sparse solvers (SuperLU/CG) to solve the electrical system.
- **Visualizer (`visualizer.py`):** Generates heatmaps via Matplotlib and renders them as overlays in KiCad.

### Methodology
The tool utilizes a **Hybrid 2.5D Finite Difference Method (FDM)**. It represents PCB layers as 2D grids of resistors connected vertically by via/PTH resistor elements. This provides the ideal balance between the speed of a 2D solver and the accuracy of a full 3D FEM for planar PCB structures.

### Stack
- **Languages:** Python 3.9+
- **UI:** wxPython
- **Math:** NumPy & SciPy
- **Geometry:** Shapely

## � Current State (Alpha)

As of the current version, Ki-PIDA implements a functional end-to-end pipeline for DC IR drop analysis.

### Capabilities:
- **Comprehensive Extraction:** Extracts tracks, pads, and filled zones (respecting thermal reliefs and voids) from KiCad 9.0+ boards.
- **3D Meshing Engine:** Converts geometry into a resistive mesh across multiple layers, correctly modeling via and PTH conductances.
- **Robust Linear Solver:** Solves the circuit using SciPy's sparse matrix backend. Includes island detection to warn about floating sections of copper that could cause numerical issues.
- **Automated Diagnostics:** Detects isolated copper nodes and disjoint electrical islands during the solve phase.

### User Experience:
- **Interactive Configuration:** A simple tabbed interface to select nets and define electrical parameters.
- **Pad-Level Mapping:** Precisely assign voltages and currents to specific component pads.
- **In-Memory Visualization:** Instant generation of 3D node plots to inspect voltage distribution without exporting files.
- **Safe Net Locking:** Automatically locks your net selection after defining sources/loads to prevent configuration errors.

## �🗺️ Roadmap

- **Phase 1 (Current):** DC IR Drop, basic thermal checks, and power tree UI.
- **Phase 2:** AC Impedance Analysis ($Z$ vs Frequency) and decoupling capacitor optimization.
- **Phase 3:** Full 3D Thermal modeling with airflow convection.

Commit message:

Add installation instructions for Windows users and a PyPardiso recommendation to the README.

README.md, after:

# Ki-PIDA (KiCad Power Integrity & Delivery Analyzer)

Ki-PIDA is a native KiCad plugin designed for Direct Current (DC) Power Integrity (PI) analysis. It allows PCB designers to simulate voltage drops (IR drop), current densities, and thermal rise directly within the KiCad Pcbnew environment, eliminating the need for expensive proprietary tools or complex external workflows.

## 🚀 Why Ki-PIDA?

Modern electronics operate with tight voltage margins. An IR drop of just 30mV can lead to system instability in sub-1.0V Socs. High current densities also pose thermal risks and reliability hazards like electromigration. 

Ki-PIDA democratizes high-end PI analysis by:
- **Ensuring Stability:** Detect voltage violations at the layout stage.
- **Reducing Iterations:** Identify "neck-down" regions and hotspots before prototyping.
- **Seamless Workflow:** Interactive layout-driven analysis without leaving KiCad.

## ✨ Key Features

- **Native Integration:** Built for KiCad 9.0+ using the Python Scripting API.
- **Power Tree Management:** Auto-discover power rails and manage complex hierarchies including VRM efficiency modeling.
- **Hybrid 2.5D Solver:** Fast and accurate simulation using an optimized resistive mesh approach.
- **Multi-Physics Support:** Coupled electro-thermal simulation to account for temperature-dependent copper resistivity.
- **Visual Feedback:** Interactive heatmaps for voltage and current density rendered as overlays on the PCB canvas.

## 📦 Installation

To run Ki-PIDA on Windows, you must install the required dependencies into the Python environment bundled with KiCad.

1.  Open the **KiCad 9.0 Command Prompt** from your Start Menu.
2.  Run the following command to install the required libraries:
    ```bash
    pip install numpy scipy shapely matplotlib pypardiso
    ```

> [!TIP]
> **PyPardiso** is highly recommended as it provides a multi-threaded parallel solver that is significantly faster for large PCB designs.

## 📖 How to Use

1.  **Layout & Netlist:** Complete your power planes and traces in Pcbnew.
2.  **Launch Plugin:** Open Ki-PIDA from the KiCad toolbar.
3.  **Define Sources & Loads:** 
    - Use **Auto-Discovery** to detect power nets.
    - Assign **Voltage Sources** (VRMs) and **Current Loads** to specific pads or nets.
    - Pair supply nets with their corresponding **Return Path** (GND).
4.  **Simulate:** Click "Simulate" to generate the mesh and solve the DC network.
5.  **Visualize:** Toggle between **Voltage Drop** and **Thermal** heatmaps to inspect results and generate DRC markers for violations.

## 🛠️ Technical Overview (For Developers)

Ki-PIDA is built on a modular architecture designed for performance and maintainability.

### Architecture
- **Extractor (`extractor.py`):** Interfaces with the KiCad API to pull filled zone geometry, track layouts, and physical stackup data.
- **Mesher (`mesh.py`):** Discretizes continuous copper geometry into a 2D/3D resistive grid (Rasterization).
- **Solver (`solver.py`):** Uses an Admittance Matrix (Stamps method) and optimized SciPy sparse solvers (SuperLU/CG) to solve the electrical system.
- **Visualizer (`visualizer.py`):** Generates heatmaps via Matplotlib and renders them as overlays in KiCad.

### Methodology
The tool utilizes a **Hybrid 2.5D Finite Difference Method (FDM)**. It represents PCB layers as 2D grids of resistors connected vertically by via/PTH resistor elements. This provides the ideal balance between the speed of a 2D solver and the accuracy of a full 3D FEM for planar PCB structures.

### Stack
- **Languages:** Python 3.9+
- **UI:** wxPython
- **Math:** NumPy & SciPy
- **Geometry:** Shapely

## � Current State (Alpha)

As of the current version, Ki-PIDA implements a functional end-to-end pipeline for DC IR drop analysis.

### Capabilities:
- **Comprehensive Extraction:** Extracts tracks, pads, and filled zones (respecting thermal reliefs and voids) from KiCad 9.0+ boards.
- **3D Meshing Engine:** Converts geometry into a resistive mesh across multiple layers, correctly modeling via and PTH conductances.
- **Robust Linear Solver:** Solves the circuit using SciPy's sparse matrix backend. Includes island detection to warn about floating sections of copper that could cause numerical issues.
- **Automated Diagnostics:** Detects isolated copper nodes and disjoint electrical islands during the solve phase.

### User Experience:
- **Interactive Configuration:** A simple tabbed interface to select nets and define electrical parameters.
- **Pad-Level Mapping:** Precisely assign voltages and currents to specific component pads.
- **In-Memory Visualization:** Instant generation of 3D node plots to inspect voltage distribution without exporting files.
- **Safe Net Locking:** Automatically locks your net selection after defining sources/loads to prevent configuration errors.

## �🗺️ Roadmap

- **Phase 1 (Current):** DC IR Drop, basic thermal checks, and power tree UI.
- **Phase 2:** AC Impedance Analysis ($Z$ vs Frequency) and decoupling capacitor optimization.
- **Phase 3:** Full 3D Thermal modeling with airflow convection.
